FRUSTRATION IS MOUNTING IN
WASHINGTON ... AND AROUND THE
NATION ON DAY FOUR OF THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN...
BUT THERE'S NO END IN SIGHT.
GOOD EVENING...
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO TONIGHT...
PAUL SOLMAN ON A NEW HIGH-TECH
ALTERNATIVE TO THE TRUSTED
GREENBACK...
A VIRTUAL CURRENCY USED AROUND
THE WORLD TO BUY REAL THINGS ...
>> BITCOINS ARE GENERATED, OR
MINED, BY COMPUTERS // BUT WHAT
MAKES THIS STRICTLY COMPUTERIZED
CURRENCY // WORTH ANYTHING AT
ALL?
>> Woodruff: AND IT'S FRIDAY...
DAVID BROOKS AND E.J. DIONNE ARE
HERE TO ANALYZE THE WEEK'S
NEWS...
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: OUR LEAD STORY
TONIGHT, THE PARTIAL GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN STRETCHED INTO
THE WEEKEND, AND THE IMPASSE
STRETCHED TEMPERS IN CONGRESS.
"NEWSHOUR" CONGRESSIONAL
CORRESPONDENT KWAME HOLMAN
BEGINS OUR COVERAGE.
>> THIS ISN'T SOME DAMN GAME.
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE DON'T WANT
THEIR GOVERNMENT SHUT DOWN AND
NEITHER DO I.
>> Reporter: HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN
BOEHNER GAVE NO GROUND THIS
MORNING, REJECTING THE
PRESIDENT'S CRITICISM THAT HE IS
TO BME FLAOR THE SHUTDOWN.
>> ALL WE'RE ASKING FOR IS TO
SIT DOWN AND HAVE A DISCUSSION
AND TO BRING FAIRNESS-- REOPEN
THE GOVERNMENT AND BRING
FAIRNESS TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
UNDER OBAMACARE.
IT'S AS SIMPLE AS THAT.
BUT IT ALL HAS TO BEGIN WITH A
SIMPLE DISCUSSION.
>> Reporter: PRESIDENT OBAMA,
MEANWHILE, KEPT UP HIS CRITICISM
OF BOEHNER, EVEN AS HE AND VICE
PRESIDENT BIDEN STROLLED TO A
SANDWICH SHOP NEAR THE WHITE
HOUSE.
>> THIS SHUTDOWN COULD BE OVER
TODAY.
WE KNOW THERE ARE THE VOTES FOR
IT IN THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES.
AND AS I SAID YESTERDAY IF
SPEAKER BOEHNER WILL SIMPLY
ALLOW THAT VOTE TO TAKE PLACE WE
CAN END THIS SHUTDOWN.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, ON THE
HOUSE FLOOR, DEMOCRATS PRESSED
AGAIN FOR THAT STRAIGHT-UP VOTE
ON A GOVERNMENT FUNDING BILL.
>> 99% OF US ARE PREPARED TO
VOTE FOR A RESOLUTION AT THIS
DAY TO OPEN THE GOVERNMENT
BECAUSE THAT IS THE RATIONAL,
COMMON SENSE, RIGHT THING TO DO.
I TELL SPEAKER BOEHNER, "MR.
SPEAKER, WE'RE PREPARED TO VOTE
ON THAT TODAY, AS SOON AS THIS
HOUSE OPENS."
>> Reporter: WITHIN BOEHNER'S
HOUSE REPUBLICAN RANKS, THERE
WAS STRONG SENTIMENT NOT TO GIVE
IN.
>> NOW COMES THE PRESIDENT AND
THE SENATE MAJORITY LEADER
DEMANDING THAT THIS HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVE SURRENDER.
WE WILL NOT SURRENDER!
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: STILL, IT WAS
INCREASINGLY CLEAR SOME
REPUBLICANS WANT A WAY OUT.
SENATOR KELLY AYOTTE OF NEW
HAMPSHIRE.
>> AND I WOULD SAY TO MY
IT'S TIME FOR A REALITY CHECK.
DEFUNDING OBAMACARE DID NOT WORK
AS A STRATEGY, SO LET'S FIND
COMMON GROUND AND WORK TOGETHER,
YES, TO ADDRESS THE CONCERNS
THAT ARE VERY LEGITIMATE THAT WE
HAVE WITH THIS HEALTH CARE BILL,
BUT ALSO TO GET THIS GOVERNMENT
FUNDED.
>> Reporter: THE HOUSE DID VOTE
ON A BILL TO REOPEN THE FEDERAL
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY, AS
A TROPICAL STORM APPROACHED THE
GULF COAST.
REPUBLICANS ALSO PUSHED ANOTHER
SPENDING BILL TO FUND
NUTRITIONAL ASSISTANCE FOR LOW-
INCOME WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
BUT THE WHITE HOUSE SAID THE
PRESIDENT WOULD VETO ANY PARTIAL
SPENDING BILLS THAT MAKE IT TO
HIS DESK.
THE ONLY EXCEPTION, A BILL THAT
WILL PAY RETROACTIVELY SOME
800,000 FURLOUGHED GOVERNMENT
WORKERS.
AS THE BATTLE OVER THE SHUTDOWN
DRAGS ON, AN EVEN MORE CRITICAL
FISCAL SHOWDOWN LOOMS  OVER THE
CAPITOL.
CONGRESS HAS UNTIL OCTOBER 17TH
TO RAISE THE GOVERNMENT'S DEBT
CEILING, OR FACE NATIONAL
DEFAULT.
THAT'S PROMPTED GROWING
SPECULATION THAT LAWMAKERS COULD
TRY TO MERGE THE TWO ISSUES IN A
RENEWED QUEST FOR A GRAND
BARGAIN.
SPEAKER BOEHNER SAID TODAY
REPUBLICANS WILL INSIST ON
SPENDING CUTS IF THEY'RE GOING
TO VOTE TO RAISE THE BORROWING
LIMIT.
>> I DON'T BELIEVE THAT WE
SHOULD DEFAULT ON OUR DEBT.
IT'S NOT GOOD FOR OUR COUNTRY.
BUT AFTER 55 YEARS OF SPENDING
MORE THAN WHAT YOU BRING IN,
SOMETHING OUGHT TO BE ADDRESSED.
THIS YEAR WE'LL HAVE MORE
REVENUE THAN ANY YEAR IN THE
HISTORY OF OUR COUNTRY AND YET
STILL HAVE A NEARLY $700 BILLION
DEFICIT.
AND I THINK THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
EXPECT IF WE'RE GOING TO RAISE
THE AMOUNT OF MONEY WE CAN
BORROW, WE OUGHT TO DO SOMETHING
ABOUT OUR SPENDING PROBLEM AND
THE LACK OF ECONOMIC GROWTH IN
OUR COUNTRY.
>> Reporter: FOR HIS PART,
NEGOTIATE ONMA SAID AGAIN HE'D
SPENDING CUTS AND OTHER ISSUES,
BUT ONLY AFTER THE GOVERNMENT
REOPENS.
IN THE MEANTIME, THE PRESIDENT,
CITING THE SHUTDOWN AND THE DEBT
CEILING FIGHT, CANCELED HIS
PLANNED TRIP TO ASIA FOR
ECONOMIC SUMMITS.
>> Woodruff: IN OTHER NEWS, THE
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN DELAYED
ECONOMIC TALKS WITH THE EUROPEAN
UNION.
THE U.S. TRADE REPRESENTATIVE
HAD PLANNED TO GO TO BRUSSELS
NEXT WEEK FOR NEGOTIATIONS ON A
LANDMARK TRADE DEAL.
AND ON WALL STREET, STOCKS MADE
UP SOME OF YESTERDAY'S LOST
GROUND.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 76 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,072.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 33 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,807.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW LOST 1%.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 0.7%.
TROPICAL STORM KAREN CHURNED
CLOSER TO THE GULF COAST TODAY.
BY THIS EVENING, IT WAS ROUGHLY
200 MILES FROM THE MOUTH OF THE
MISSISSIPPI RIVER AND AIMING FOR
LANDFALL SOMEWHERE BETWEEN
GRAND ISLE, LOUISIANA AND
DESTIN, FLORIDA.
THE STORM COULD BECOME A
HURRICANE BY THE TIME IT STRIKES
SHORE, SOMETIME TOMORROW.
MORE DETAILS HAVE EMERGED ON THE
CONNECTICUT WOMAN WHO LED POLICE
ON A CAR CHASE THROUGH DOWNTOWN
WASHINGTON, YESTERDAY.
MIRIAM CAREY FIRST TRIED TO
DRIVE THROUGH A WHITE HOUSE
SECURITY BARRIER.
FROM THERE, SHE RACED TO THE
CAPITOL, WHERE POLICE BRIEFLY
CORNERED HER, BEFORE SHE SPED
OFF AGAIN.
SHE WAS SHOT TO DEATH MOMENTS
LATER.
TODAY, INVESTIGATORS SAID CAREY
WAS DELUSIONAL, AND BELIEVED THE
PRESIDENT WAS COMMUNICATING
WITH HER.
HER MOTHER SAID SHE'D SUFFERED
FROM POST-PARTUM DEPRESSION.
POLICE IN STAMFORD, CONNECTICUT-
- WHERE CAREY LIVED-- SEARCHED
HER CONDO OVERNIGHT.
>> WE DID NOT DEEM TO BE THERE
ANY DANGER, BUT WE CERTAINLY
TOOK ALL PRECAUTIONARY TO MAKE
SURE OF THAT.
SO, WITH THAT BEING SAID, WE
TESTED THE AIR, WE TESTED
DIFFERENT PRODUCTS, WE DECONNED
OURSELVES COMING IN AND COMING
OUT.
WE SECURED IT WITH OUR ROBOT,
AND THEN WE WENT IN AND SECURED
SOME EVIDENCE.
>> Woodruff: CAREY'S ONE-YEAR
OLD DAUGHTER WAS IN THE CAR WITH
HER DURING THE CHASE AND
SHOOTING.
SHE WAS UNHURT AND IS NOW IN
PROTECTIVE CUSTODY.
AN OHIO MAN PLEADED GUILTY TODAY
TO TRYING TO SMASH HIS JEEP INTO
A SECRET SERVICE OUTPOST AT THE
WHITE HOUSE IN JUNE.
JOSEPH REEL RIGGED THE VEHICLE
AND AIMED IT TOWARD A GUARD
BOOTH.
HE SAID HE HOPED TO USE THE
COMMOTION TO SPRAY-PAINT AN
ANTI-GOVERNMENT SLOGAN ON THE
WHITE HOUSE.
NO ONE WAS HURT, AND REEL WAS
QUICKLY ARRESTED.
HE FACES 35 MONTHS IN PRISON.
IN EGYPT, FIVE PEOPLE DIED TODAY
AS SECURITY FORCES CONFRONTED
THOUSANDS OF SUPPORTERS OF
OUSTED PRESIDENT MOHAMED MORSI.
WITNESSES SAID RIOT POLICE FIRED
TEAR GAS AND LIVE ROUNDS.
THE SKIRMISHES BROKE OUT DURING
MARCHES IN SEVERAL CITIES,
INCLUDING CAIRO AND ALEXANDRIA.
DEMONSTRATORS DEMANDED AN END TO
THE MILITARY-BACKED GOVERNMENT.
RIOTS ERUPTED IN KENYA,
HOURS AFTER GUNMEN SHOT AND
KILLED A MLIM USCLERIC AND THREE
OTHERS.
THE DEATHS SENT YOUTHS INTO THE
STREETS OF MOMBASA, BURNING
TIRES AND CHANTING SLOGANS.
THEY ACCUSED POLICE OF CARRYING
OUT THE SHOOTINGS AS RETALIATION
FOR THE SIEGE AT A NAIROBI
SHOPPING MALL THAT KILLED 67
PEOPLE.
A SOMALI ISLAMIST GROUP HAS
CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE
MALL ATTACK.
THE COMMUNIST GENERAL WHO
SUCCESSFULLY BATTLED FRENCH
FORCES AND THE U.S. IN VIETNAM,
HAS DIED.
VO NGUYEN GIAP WAS THE LAST
OF VIETNAM'S OLD GUARD
REVOLUTIONARIES.
IN 1954, AT DIEN BIEN PHU, GIAP
EFFECTIVELY ENDED MORE THAN 70
YEARS OF FRENCH COLONIAL RULE.
HE WENT ON TO FIGHT AMERICAN
FORCES, AND ULTIMATELY CONQUERED
SOUTH VIETNAM AFTER THE U.S.
WITHDREW.
MORE THAN A MILLION OF HIS OWN
TROOPS DIED IN THE PROCESS.
VO NGUYEN GIAP WAS 102 YEARS
OLD.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME
ON THE "NEWSHOUR": THE TRAGIC
TALE OF MIGRANTS FLEEING THE
AFRICAN CONTINENT; THE DIGITAL
CURRENCY KNOWN AS BITCOIN;
TWITTER GOES PUBLIC; THE MAN WHO
SAVED THE GOVERNMENT $1 BILLION.
PLUS, DAVID BROOKS AND E.J.
DIONNE.
>> Woodruff: WE RETURN NOW TO
ITALY WHERE AFTER THURSDAY'S
MIGRANT BOAT SHIPRWRECK,
HUNDREDS ARE FEARED DEAD AND
SEARCH EFFORTS HAVE BEEN
SUSPENDED.
WE HAVE A REPORT NARRATED BY
JONATHON RUGMAN OF "INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS."AME TO EUROPE
FLEEING WAR AND POVERTY AND
ENDED UP NEARLY DROWNING,
TANTALIZINGLY CLOSE TO THE
MEDITERRANEAN SHORE.
ITALY'S COAST GUARD RESCUED
THESE TWO AFRICAN MIGRANTS, BUT
IT'S RECKONED MORE THAN 300 MAY
NOT HAVE SURVIVED AFTER THEIR
BOAT SANK TO THE BOTTOM.
THIS MORNING, DIVERS TOOK THE
SEARCH UNDERWATER TO THE SEABED
40 METERS BELOW TO THE RICKETY
TRAWLER WHICH BROKE DOWN WITH
PERHAPS 500 PEOPLE ABOARD.
THE ROUGH SEAS LED TO THIS
SEARCH BEING CALLED OFF.
THIS IS NOT A HUNT FOR SURVIVORS
NOW, BUT A BODY COUNT FOR THE
HUNDREDS WHO COULD NOT SWIM.
>> ( translated ): WE WILL
CONTINUE ALL DAY AND ALL NIGHT
UNTIL WE CAN GIVE THESE BODIES A
PROPER BURIAL.
>> Reporter: OVER 150 AFRICANS,
MANY FROM ERITREA AND SOMALIA,
WERE MORE THAN THANKFUL TO BE
RESCUED YESTERDAY.
THE COAST GUARD IS USUALLY FIRST
ALERTED BY A DISTRESS CALL.
BUT IN THIS CASE, THE BOAT DID
NOT TELEPHONE AHEAD.
INSTEAD THE MIGRANTS ON BOARD
SET FIRE TO A BLANKET AND THIS
DESPERATE BID FOR ATTENTION
PROVED FATAL.
>> ( translated ): THEY SET A
BLANKET ON FIRE TO MAKE A SIGNAL
BUT SOME GASOLINE ON THE BOAT
CAUGHT LIGHT AND THE WATER
CAUSED THE FIRE TO SPREAD.
THEY WERE SCARED AND ALL MOVED
TO ONE SIDE OF THE BOAT SO THE
BOAT CAPSIZED AND THEY FELL IN
THE WATER.
BUT MANY OF THEM WERE TRAPPED
INSIDE THE BOAT.
>> ( translated ): WE RESCUED
NAKED GUYS DIRTY FROM FUEL.
THEY HAD DEATH IN THEIR EYES.
IT WAS AN UGLY AND SCARY
SITUATION.
I WILL NEVER FORGET IT.
EVEN THOUGH I AM 64 AND HAVE
SEEN A LOT, THIS TOUCHED ME A
LOT.
>> Reporter: IN ITALY, FLAGS
WERE FLOWN AT HALF MAST ON THIS
DAY OF OFFICIAL MOURNING.
POPE FRANCIS WAS VISITING
ASSISI, WHERE HIS NAMESAKE SAINT
FRANCIS ONCE DEDICATED HIMSELF
TO THE POOR.
THE POPE ABANDONED HIS SCRIPT
AND LAMENTED A WORLD WHICH HE
SAID DID NOT CARE ABOUT THOSE
WHO FOUND DEATH IN LAMPEDUSA
YESTERDAY, AND CALLING THIS A
DAY OF TEARS.
BUT AMID THE ANGUISH WITH ONE
NEWSPAPER CALLING THIS A
SHAMEFUL MASSACRE, THE ITALIANS
ARE CASTING THIS AS EUROPE'S
PROBLEM JUST AS MUCH AS THEIR'S.
THE INTERIOR MINISTER ASKED FOR
EUROPE'S HELP AND CLAIMED
LAMPEDUSA WOULD BE NOMINATED FOR
THE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE.
THE SURVIVORS ARE BEING HELD IN
A SO-CALLED WELCOME CENTER ON
THE ISLAND WHERE MORE THAN 8,000
HAVE BEEN RECEIVED SO FAR THIS
YEAR.
AND THOUGH ITALY'S PRIME
MINISTER IS NOW CALLING FOR
EUROPE TO SET UP HUMANITARIAN
CORRIDORS FOR MIGRANT BOATS, FAR
MORE LIKELY ARE MORE HEARSES
CARRYING MORE DEAD.
LAMPEDUSA'S PROBLEM AND NO ONE
ELSE'S.
>> Woodruff: RAY SUAREZ TAKES
THE STORY FROM THERE.
>> Suarez: FOR MORE ON THE
PERILOUS JOURNEY THESE MIGRANTS
UNDERTAKE, I'M JOINED BY JEFF
CRISP.
HE SPENT SEVEN YEARS AT THE U.N.
REFUGEE AGENCY AND IS NOW THE
SENIOR DIRECTOR FOR POLICY AND
ADVOCACY AT REFUGEES
INTERNATIONAL.
JEFF CRISP, ISN'T THIS JUST THE
MOST RECENT OF THESE TRAGEDIES?
ISN'T THIS A PROBLEM OF LONG
DURATION?
>> WELL, THIS TRAGEDY HAS
CERTAINLY GAINED MORE
INTERNATIONAL ATTENTION THAN ANY
OTHER PREVIOUS TRAGEDIES OF ITS
TYPE AND THAT'S PARTLY BECAUSE
OF THE HERE IS NUMBERS OF PEOPLE
INVOLVED, POSSIBLY 300 PEOPLE
MAY HAVE LOST THEIR LIVES.
SECONDLY BECAUSE IT SEEMS TO BE
A LARGE NUMBER OF WOMEN AND
CHILDREN ON THE BOAT AND I THINK
THIS, AGAIN, HAS BEEN ONE OF THE
REASONS WHY IT'S ATTRACTED A LOT
OF ATTENTION.
WE'VE SEEN THESE KIND OF
MOVEMENTS IN THE PAST BUT THEY
TENDED TO BE YOUNGER MEN.
NOW WE'RE HAVING A NEW
DEMOGRAPHIC IN TERMS OF THIS
MOVEMENT ACROSS THE
MEDITERRANEAN AND I THINK ALSO
THE FACT THAT THE POPE HAS COME
OUT SO STRONGLY ON THIS ISSUE
HAS ATTRACTED A GREAT DEAL OF
ATTENTION BUT AS YOU'RE
SUGGESTING, I THINK, THIS IS NOT
A FEW PHENOMENON.
IT'S BEEN GOING ON FOR AT LEAST
20 YEARS ACROSS THE
MEDITERRANEAN AND ACCORDING TO
SOME ESTIMATES AT LEAST 20,000
PEOPLE HAVE LOST THEIR LIVES
DURING THAT TIME.
OF COURSE, SOME PEOPLE DO MANAGE
TO MAKE THE JOURNEY SUCCESSFULLY
AND, AGAIN, ACCORDING TO ONE
ESTIMATE IN 2012 AROUND 15,000
PEOPLE DID SUCCESSFULLY CROSS
THE MEDITERRANEAN AND MAKE THEIR
WAY TO SOUTHERN EUROPE.
>> Suarez: IN THIS CASE, BOTH
THE LIVING AND THE DEAD WERE
MANY AIR TREIANS FROM AFRICA'S
EAST COAST.
BUT THESE PEOPLE HEADING IN FROM
MOROCCO, LIBYA, TUNISIA, ARE
THEY FROM ALL OVER THE
CONTINENT?
>> PRETTY MUCH SO.
FROM ALL OVER SUBSAHARAN AFRICA
AND ONE HAS TO TAKE ACCOUNT OF
THE FACT THAT BEFORE THEY EVEN
GET TO THE MEDITERRANEAN MANY OF
THESE PEOPLE HAVE UNDERTAKEN
INCREDIBLY GRUELING AND ARDUOUS
JOURNALS.
IMAGINE TRAVELING OVER LAND FROM
SOMALIA AND SUDAN AND ERITREA TO
LIBYA AND THEN HAVING COCONFRONT
THE POSSIBILITY OF THE JOURNEY
ACROSS THE OCEAN.
SO THESE PEOPLE ARE EXN
EXTREMELY DIFFICULT
CIRCUMSTANCES BUT THE TIME
THEY'VE ARRIVED IN NORTHERN
AFRICA AND THAT'S ONLY A TRANSIT
POINT ON THEIR JOURNEY.
>> Suarez: IN MANY CASES
THEY'VE BORROWED MONEY OR SOLD
EVERYTHING THEY HAD TO HAVE MADE
THE JOURNEY.
IT MUST BE VERY HARD TO TURN
BACK IF YOU REALIZE IT'S A BAD
IDEA.
IT'S ONE OF THE MOST INTERESTING
THINGS ABOUT THIS PHENOMENON IS
HOW DO PEOPLE MAKE THESE
JOURNEYS.
IN MANY CASES FAMILIES IN THE
COUNTRY OF ORIGIN POOL MONEY,
SELL THEIR GOODS IN ORDER TO
SPONSOR ONE PERSON FROM THE
FAMILY OR THE COMMUNITY TO MAKE
THEIR WAY.
THERE ARE VERY LARGE DIASPORA
COMMUNITIES LIVING THROUGHOUT
WESTERN EUROPE AND IT SEEMS TO
BE THE CASE THAT THESE DIASPORA
COMMUNITIES ARE SENDING MONEY
BACK TO THE COUNTRIES OF ORIGIN
AND THAT THIS MONEY IS USED TO
FINANCE THE JOURNEY.
THESE JOURNEYS ARE NOT CHEAP
BECAUSE THEY'RE ORGANIZE BID
HUMAN SMUGGLERS AND THEY'RE IN
THIS BUSINESS TO MAKE A PROFIT.
>> Suarez: YOU'VE MENTIONED
THOUSANDS DO SUCCESSFULLY CROSS
INTO EUROPE.
WHERE DO THEY END UP AND WHAT DO
THEY END UP DOING?
>> VERY, VERY FEW OF THE END UPH
ANY KIND OF LEGAL STATUS.
SOME APPLY FOR REFUGEE STATUS.
IN SOME CASES THEY MAY BE
SUCCESSFUL IN GETTING REFUGEE
STATUS AND ALLOWED TO REMAIN IN
THE COUNTRY.
THE MAJORITY WILL NOT BE
RECOGNIZED AS REFUGEES.
MANY OF THEM WILL SIMPLY GO
UNDERGROUND AND HAVE TO LIVE IN
THE SHADOWS OF LIFE WORKING IN
THE INFORMALLAL ECONOMY OFTEN
WORKING WITHIN THE COMMUNITIES
OF OTHER PEOPLE WHO HAVE ALREADY
LEFT THOSE COUNTRIES AND TAKEN
UP RIZ DENSE IN EUROPE.
>> Suarez: EUROPE HAS BEEN
UNDERGOING TERRIBLE ECONOMIC
TURMOIL IN THE LAST SEVERAL
YEARS.
IS THERE LESS OF A WELCOME FOR
THESE REFUGEES NOW AND IS IT A
POLITICAL CONTROVERSY, THE
NUMBER MAKING --
>> IT'S CERTAINLY POLITICAL
CONTROVERSY AND THERE'S
CERTAINLY BEEN A MOVEMENT IN
MANY WESTERN EUROPEAN COUNTRIES
WHERE RIGHT WING ORGANIZATIONS
ARE TAKING QUITE A HARD LINE
AGAINST THE ARRIVAL OF IRREGULAR
OR AS THEY WOULD CALL THEM
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS AND I THINK
THERE IS AN INTERESTING DEBATE
GOING ON ABOUT THIS KIND OF
MIGRATORY MOVEMENT.
SOME PEOPLE SEE IN THE POSITIVE
TERMS, THE FACT THAT PEOPLE ARE
MAKING THE BEST OF THEIR LIVES,
TRYING TO IMPROVE THEIR
SITUATION, THAT THEY'RE FILLING
JOBS THAT NATIONALS REFUSE TO
TAKE SO THEY ARE MAKING A
CONTRIBUTION TO THE ECONOMY AND,
OF COURSE, THEY'RE CONSUMERS.
THEY BUY GOODS IN THE ECONOMY
AND CONTRIBUTE IN THAT WAY.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME, THERE ARE
MANY PEOPLE THAT WOULD ARGUE
THAT THESE PEOPLE ARE ARRIVING
IN AN ILLEGAL MANNER, THEY DON'T
HAVE THE RIGHT TO TAKE UP
RESIDENCE IN THESE COUNTRIES AND
THAT THEY'RE PLACING A GREAT
DEAL OF STRAIN ON HOUSING, ON
EDUCATION, AND HEALTH SERVICES.
SO THERE'S A VERY LIVELY DEBATE
GOING ON WITHIN EUROPE ABOUT THE
ARRIVAL OF THESE KINDS OF MY
GRANTS.
>> Suarez: WE SAW BRIEFLY THE
ITALIAN MINISTER OF THE
INTERIOR.
HE SAID TO THE PARLIAMENT
"EUROPE MUST REALIZE IT'S NOT AN
ITALIAN DRAMA BUT A EUROPEAN
ONE.
LAMPEDUSA MUST BECOME THE BORDER
OF EUROPE, NOT ITALY."
HAS ITALY BEEN GETTING HELP FROM
ANY E.U. INSTITUTIONS?
CERTAIN.
>> CERTAINLY NOT AS MUCH HELP AS
ITALY WOULD HAVE LIKE TO HAVE.
THIS HAS BEEN A CONSTANT
PHENOMENA OF THE RECENT YEARS
WHEN REFUGEES OR ASYLUM SEEKERS
GO TO ONE COUNTRY OTHER
COUNTRIES IN THE EUROPEAN UNION
ARE GENERALLY NOT THAT
INTERESTED IN HELPING OUT
ANOTHER COUNTRY.
SO THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF
COMPETITION, EVEN TENSION
BETWEEN COUNTRIES.
FOR EXAMPLE, A COUPLE OF YEARS
AGO WHEN LARGE NUMBERS OF TU
INDONESIANS DURING THE ARAB
SPRING CROSSED OTHER INTO ITALY
THEY TRIED TO GET INTO FRANCE,
FRANCE SAID "YOU'RE NOT COMING
INTO FRANCE."
SO THIS IS AN ISSUE STIRRING UP
TENSION WITHIN KOUPBL REIS
BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION.
>> Suarez: ONE OF THE LARGEST
TRANSIT POINTS WAS FROM MOROCCO
INTO SPAIN.
BUT HAS THAT BEEN SHUT DOWN?
>> AS FAR AS WE CAN TELL.
IT'S A HEAVILY FORTIFIED
FRONTIER, VERY HIGH FENCES,
REGULARLY PATROLLED BY THE
MILITARY.
THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE SEEKING TO
CROSS THAT BORDER APPEARS TO
HAVE SUBSIDED CONSIDERABLY.
THE NEW HOT SPOT IN TERMS OF
THIS MIGRATION IS LIBYA AND I
THINK THAT'S BECAUSE DURING THE
QADDAFI PERIOD THERE WERE
AGREEMENTS BETWEEN QADDAFI AND
THE ITALIAN GOVERNMENT TO STOP
THESE KIND OF MOVEMENTS TAKING
PLACE BUT THE KIND OF PROBLEMS
THAT LIBYA IS NOW EXPERIENCING
IT'S BEEN VERY EASY FOR THESE
HUMAN SMUGGLERS TO PLY THEIR
TRADE IN THIS COUNTRY BECAUSE OG
PLACE THERE.
>> Suarez: JEFF CRISP FROM
REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL.
ANKSTH FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUST HAVE.
>> Woodruff: AND TO TWO STORIES
FROM THE WORLD OF TECHNOLOGY.
THE FIRST FOCUSING ON A DIGITAL
CURRENCY THAT YOU MAY NOT
HAVE KNOWN ABOUT BEFORE IT MADE
NATIONAL NEWS THIS WEEK.
OUR ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN HAS BEEN TRACKING ITS
GROWTH AND EXPLAINS.
IT'S PART OF HIS ONGOING
REPORTING, "MAKING SENSE OF
FINANCIAL NEWS."
>> BITCOINS ARE DIGITAL COINS
YOU CAN SEND THROUGH THE
INTERNET.
>> Reporter: THE CURRENCY KNOWN
AS BITCOIN, WHICH MADE HEADLINES
EARLIER THIS WEEK WHEN THE
F.B.I. SEIZED SILK ROAD, THE
POPULAR ONLINE BLACK MARKETPLACE
FOR DRUGS AND OTHER CONTRABAND,
PAYABLE IN BITCOIN, THAT HAD
DONE OVER A BILLION DOLLARS
WORTH OF BUSINESS IN THE LAST
TWO YEARS.
BUT WHAT MAKES THIS STRICTLY
COMPUTERIZED CURRENCY, CREATED
AND MAINTAINED BY A NETWORK OF
COMPUTERS SOLVING MATH PROBLEMS,
WORTH ANYTHING AT ALL?
>> MONEY IS A CONVENTION.
>> Reporter: ECONOMIC HISTORIAN
RICHARD SYLLA.
>> I TAKE PAPER MONEY, PAPER
ITSELF ISN'T WORTH MUCH, BECAUSE
I KNOW YOU'LL ACCEPT IT WHEN I
WANT TO BUY SOMETHING FROM YOU.
>> Reporter: AND THAT'S IT?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
MONEY IS WHAT MONEY DOES.
>> Reporter: AND SINCE THESE
DAYS, IN THE WORLD OF
LIBERTARIAN HIGH TECHIES,
SKEPTICISM ABOUT GOVERNMENT-
ISSUED PAPER MONEY ABOUNDS,
BITCOIN-- A DIGITAL CURRENCY
ATTACHED TO NO COUNTRY AT ALL--
IS BECOMING THEIR ALTERNATIVE OF
CHOICE.
>> I'VE LOST A LOT OF FAITH-- A
LOT OF PEOPLE HAVE.
IF YOU LOOK AT WHEN WE STARTED
THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM IN
1913 TO TODAY, OVER 90% OF THE
VALUE OF YOUR DOLLAR HAS GONE
DOWN.
>> Reporter: CHARLES HOSKINSON'S
LAMENT HAS BEEN A FAMILIAR ONE
AMONG FED PHOBES IN THE PAST FEW
YEARS.
>> I WAS A CAMPAIGNER FOR RON
PAUL BACK IN 2008 AND ALSO IN
2012.
I MET RON PAUL.
HE WAS A GREAT GUY AND I REALLY
S MESSAGE.
>> Reporter: AND THE KEY PART OF
HIS MESSAGE THAT PERTAINS HERE?
>> SOUND MONEY.
SOUND MONEY.
THE IDEA THAT YOUR MONEY NEEDS
TO HAVE RULES THAT CAN'T BE
MANIPULATED BASED UPON POLITICAL
CONVENIENCE.
>> Reporter: BY CONTRAST, SAYS
HOSKINSON, BITCOIN IS
UNMANIPULABLE, APOLITICAL.
>> INVENTED IN '09 BY A
FICTITIOUS PERSON NAMED SATOSHI
NAKAMOTO.
>> Reporter: A PERSON OR MAYBE
GROUP WHICH HAS SINCE VANISHED
INTO CYBERSPACE, BITCOINS WERE
INVENTED SO AS TO HAVE AN UPPER
LIMIT: 21 MILLION BITCOIN CAN BE
CREATED; NO MORE.
>> BITCOINS ARE GENERATED ALL
OVER THE INTERNET BY ANYBODY
RUNNING A FREE APPLICATION
CALLED A BITCOIN MINER.
>> Reporter: BITCOINS ARE
GENERATED OR MINED BY COMPUTERS,
SOLVING MATH PROBLEMS THAT
BECOME EVER MORE COMPLEX AND
TIME-CONSUMING.
THE COINS THEMSELVES: STRINGS OF
CHARACTERS LIKE A PASSWORD OR
CODE, HENCE THE NAME CRYPTO-
CURRENCY.
EASY TO BREAK THE CODE?
ABSOLUTELY NOT, SAYS
MATHEMATICIAN HOSKINSON.
>> IF THAT WAS THE CASE THEN
WE'D BE IN BIGGER PROBLEMS,
BECAUSE ALL OF OUR PASSWORDS
WOULD BE VULNERABLE; PEOPLE
COULD BREAK BANK ENCRYPTION; THE
SECRET COMMUNICATIONS THE N.S.A.
USES AND THE GOVERNMENT USES
WOULD ALL BE DECRYPTABLE.
>> Reporter: OF COURSE, EVEN
SEEMINGLY INDECIPHERABLE CODES
ARE SOMETIMES BROKEN.
ONE REASON WHY BITCOIN CURRENCY
GIVES ECONOMIC HISTORIAN RICHARD
SYLLA PAUSE.
>> I'M LIKE WARREN BUFFET.
I DON'T BUY SOMETHING IF I DON'T
UNDERSTAND IT AND FOR ALL I KNOW
THE PERSON WHO CREATED BITCOINS
WOULD BE LIKE KING HENRY THE 8TH
IN BRITAIN WHO DECIDED SUDDENLY
TO DOUBLE THE AMOUNT OF BRITISH
MONEY UNITS AROUND AND THERE WAS
A BIG INFLATION.
>> Reporter: WELL, BITCOINS ARE
SUPPOSEDLY CREATED IN A WAY
WHERE THAT JUST CAN'T HAPPEN.
>> THAT'S THE ARGUMENT THEY MAKE
AND OF COURSE, THAT'S THE GREAT
ARGUMENT FOR GOLD AND SILVER
STANDARDS, THAT THE SUPPLY IS
LIMITED.
BUT, I THINK IT'S MUCH EASIER TO
CHANGE THE ALGORITHMS OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT AND DOUBLE
THE AMOUNT OF BITCOINS OVERNIGHT
THAN IT IS TO ACTUALLY COME UP
WITH MORE GOLD AND SILVER.
>> Reporter: NOPE.
MATHEMATICALLY IMPOSSIBLE,
COUNTERS THE BITCOIN COMMUNITY,
AND HOW DO BITCOINS ACTUALLY
WORK?
>> BITCOINS ARE TRANSFERRED
DIRECTLY FROM PERSON TO PERSON
VIA THE NET WITHOUT GOING
THROUGH A BANK OR CLEARINGHOUSE.
THIS MEANS THAT THE FEES ARE
MUCLOWEH R.
YOU CAN USE THEMN EV IERY
COUNTRY.
YOU CAN PURCHASE VIDEO GAMES,
GIFTS, BOOKS AND ALPACA SOCKS.
>> Reporter: AND AS WE SAW THIS
WEEK, YOU CAN ALSO PURCHASE
HEROIN-- HIGH AND CONSISTENT
QUALITY!
BUY TEN, GET TWO BAGS FREE.
THE F.B.I. HAS NOW SEIZED THE
SILK ROAD SITE, CALLING IT THE
"THE MOST SOPHISTICATED AND
EXTENSIVE CRIMINAL MARKETPLACE
ON THE INTERNET TODAY."
SO, FIRST AND FOREMOST, DOES
BITCOIN REPRESENT AN UNHOLY
ALLIANCE OF HIGH-MINDED FREEDOM-
MINDED HIGH TECHIES, AND GLOBAL
CRIMINALS, EAGER AND ABLE TO
CAPITALIZE ON A TOTALLY FREE
MARKET?
LOOK, SAYS MATHEMATICIAN CHARLES
HOSKINSON, DIGITAL CURRENCIES
ARE LIKE ANY NEW TECHNOLOGY.
>> AND JUST LIKE THE INTERNET
CAN BE USED FOR BAD THINGS, LIKE
TERRORIST ACTIVITY OR CHILD
PORNOGRAPHY, BITCOIN COULD BE
USED FOR BAD THINGS, FOR
EXAMPLE, FUNDING ROGUE STATES
LIKE IRAN OR NORTH KOREA.
>> Reporter: OR DEALING DRUGS,
OR LAUNDERING MONEY.
YES, BITCOIN AS A CURRENCY DID
INITIALLY APPEAL MAINLY TO
OUTLIERS, ADMITS KINNARD
HOCKENHULL, BUT IT HAS BEGUN TO
GO MAINSTREAM, ESPECIALLY WITH
INVESTORS.
>> THEY THINK THIS IS
SKYROCKETING, I BETTER GET INTO
IT.
BUT YOU ALSO HAVE PEOPLE WHO
WANT TO USE IT, TO SEND MONEY
INSTANTLY OVER THE INTERNET.
AND WITH BITCOIN YOU CAN SEND
MONEY THE SAME WAY YOU SEND AN
EMA
>> IT'S MONEY THAT'S DESIGNED
FOR THE INTERNET.
>> Reporter: STEPHEN PAIR HAS
CO-FOUNDED BITPAY, A BITCOIN
PAYMENT PROCESSOR.
>> IF YOU THINK ABOUT CREDIT
CARDS, THEY WERE DESIGNED IN THE
1950s, BEFORE THE INTERNET
EXISTED, RIGHT, SO THIS IS THE
FIRST TIME WE'VE TAKEN
EVERYTHING WE KNOW ABOUT
CRYPTOGRAPHY AND THE INTERNET
AND SECURITY AND DESIGNED A NEW
PAYMENT SYSTEM FROM GROUND UP.
>> Reporter: A SYSTEM THAT
BYPASSES THE USUAL MIDDLEMEN,
MAKING MOST NON-CASH
TRANSACTIONS WAY CHEAPER.
>> SO REMITTANCES.
>> Reporter: LIKE REMITTANCES,
SAYS BITCOIN PROMOTER JONATHAN
MOHAN.
THE MONEY SENT BACK HOME BY
WORKERS IN THE DEVELOPED WORLD,
NOW WIRED VIA A THIRD PARTY LIKE
WESTERN UNION.
>> WHERE IF YOUR FAMILY AT HOME
MAKES $100 IN A YEAR, IT COSTS
40 BUCKS TO SEND THEM THAT $100.
AND WITH BITCOIN, IT WOULD COST
SEVERAL CENTS.
>> Reporter: AS ILLUSTRATED BY
THE SMALL BUBBLES, SOME
REPRESENTING TINY TRANSACTION
FEES, ON THIS REAL-TIME BITCOIN
TRADE AND TRANSACTION
VISUALIZER.
>> THE VAST MAJORITY OF THE
PLANET DON'T EVEN OWN A BANK
ACCOUNT.
AND IT'S MY CONTENTION THAT, A
LOT OF PEOPLE THINK THIS, THAT
JUST AS IN AFRICA THEY DIDN'T GO
TO PHONES.
THEY WENT DIRECTLY TO CELL
PHONES, THAT IN THE SAME SORT OF
ADOPTION CURVE IN THESE
DEVELOPING NATIONS, YOU'RE NOT
GOING TO SEE THEM START GETTING
BANK ACCOUNTS.
YOU'RE GOING TO SEE THEM JUST
GOING STRAIGHT TO BITCOINS,
BECAUSE IF YOU OWN A BITCOIN
ADDRESSOU H YAVE A BANK ACCOUNT
ON YOUR PHONE THAT YOU CAN
INTERACT ON THE GLOBAL STAGE
WITH.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, OTHER
SO-CALLED CRYPTOCURRENCIES HAVE
BEEN STARTED, WITH DIFFERENT
MATHEMATICAL FORMULAS AND RULES,
TRYING TO COMPETE.
>> THERE'S P-PCOIN, THERE'S
B.B.Q.-COIN, THERE'S LITECOIN,
THERE'S FEATHERCOIN, PRIMECOIN
IS A VERY INTERESTING ONE THAT
LOOKS FOR REALLY LARGE PRIME
NUMBERS.
>> Reporter: AND ALL BECAUSE,
SAYS HISTORIAN RICHARD SYLLA,
WHO CHAIRS THE BOARD OF WALL
STREETS MUSEUM AMERICAN OF
FINANCE, THERE'S SO MUCH
SKEPTICISM ABOUT GOVERNMENT AND
ITS MONEY IN AND AROUND THE HIGH
TECH COMMUNITY THESE DAYS.
VERSION OF GOLD, COMPUTERIZED,
SEXIER THAN GOLD.
YOU KNOW, WE THINK GOLD IS
PRETTY NICE.
IT SHINES, IT LOOKS NICE, BUT
BITCOINS APPEAL TO THE MORE
TECHNOLOGICALLY SAVVY OF PEOPLE
TODAY.
: AND SINCE MANY OF
THEM HAVE MONEY, AND
CRYPTOCURRENCIES DO HAVE CERTAIN
ADVANTAGES, SAYS SYLLA, THE
BITCOIN STORY MAY BE WITH US FOR
QUITE AWHILE.
>> Woodruff: A POSTSCRIPT TO
PAUL'S REPORT.
THE PRICE OF BITCOINS DID INDEED
SINK SHORTLY AFTER THE F.B.I.
RAID, DROPPING FROM $140
TO NEARLY $120.
BUT THEY'VE NOW REBOUNDED BACK
TO ALMOST $140 AND SOME
OBSERVERS SUGGEST THE BUST
MAY HAVE HELPED BOOST BITCOIN'S
LEGITIMACY BY ENDING THE
SILK ROAD CONNECTN.IO
>> Woodruff: NOW TO A SECOND
TECH STORY, THIS ABOUT THE
PUBLIC LAUNCH OF TWITTER.
THE SOCIAL MEDIA GIANT ANNOUNCED
LATE YESTERDAY THAT IT PLANS TO
RAISE ONE BILLION DOLLARS BY
OFFERING SHARES SOON, THROUGH
WHAT'S CALLED AN I.P.O.
STARTED JUST SEVEN YEARS AGO,
THE COMPANY ALSO REVEALED ITS
100 MILLION DAILY USERS
ARE CREATING 500 MILLION TWEETS
A DAY.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS A CLOSER
LOOK AT THAT AND WHAT'S BEHIND
THE BUZZ OF THE I.P.O. LAUNCH.
>> Sreenivasan: I'M JOINED BY
ZACH SEWARD WHO'S BEEN COVERING
THIS CLOSELY.
FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO DON'T
TWEET OR USE TWITTER, WHY IS
THIS I.P.O. SUCH A BIG DEAL.
>> I THINK BEFORE THE I.P.
FILING WE NEW ABOUT TWITTER THE
CULTURAL PHENOMENON, NOW WE KNOW
ABOUT TWITTER THE BUSINESS, HOW
MUCH MONEY IT'S MAKING OR, MORE
ACCURATELY, ISN'T MAKING.
IT LOST ABOUT $79 MILLION LAST
YEAR.
THAT'S ONE OF MANY FIGURES WE
DIDN'T KNOW BEFORE THIS I.P.O.
FILING LANDED.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ELSE HAVE
WE LEARNED FROM THE FILING?
>> IT HAS ABOUT 215 MILLION
USERS, 49 MILLION OF THOSE USERS
IN THE UNITED STATES AND IT
MAKES MOST OF ITS MONEY FROM
ADVERTISING, SPECIFICALLY 85% OF
TWITTER'S REVENUE COMES FROM
ADS, THE OTHER 15% FROM DATA
LICENSING AND WE LEARNED IT'S --
ITS TICKER SYMBOL.
IT WILL TRADE UNDER THE SYMBOL
TWTR.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT THEY
MAKING MONEY OFF OF THE USERS OR
US AND WHAT KIND OF MONEY DO WE
GENERATE THAT'S VALUABLE TO AN
ADVERTISER?
>> THEY LICENSE THE STREAM OF
ALL TWEETS, EVERYONE'S TWEETS.
MORE THAN ANYONE COULD EVER
READ, TO MARKETERS AND TO
ANALYTICS FIRMS THAT TRY TO
ANALYZE THE DATA AND GIVE IT
BACK TO, AMONG OTHER PEOPLE,
ADVERTISERS THAT SEE VALUE IN
WHAT PEOPLE ARE TWEETING ABOUT,
ARE THEY TALKING ABOUT CERTAIN
T.V. SHOWS, THAT SORT OF THING.
>> Sreenivasan: ANOTHER NUGGET
I READ ABOUT WAS THAT 65% OF THE
REVENUES COMING FROM MOBILE.
WHAT DOES THAT SAY ABOUT THE
EVOLUTION OF THE ONLINE ACTIVITY
THAT'S HAPPENING ON MOBILE
VERSUS A LAPTOP OR WASN'T LONG K
WAS GOING PUBLIC AND AT THAT
TIME FACEBOOK DISCLOSED IT WAS
MAKING 0% OF ITS REVENUE FROM
MOBILE.
NOW TWITTER SAYS IT'S MAKING 65%
OF ITS MONEY FROM MOBILE.
HUGE DIFFERENCE AND IT'S AS MUCH
ABOUT THE GENERAL SHIFT THAT THE
WEB IS MAKING FROM DESKTOP
COMPUTERS TO SMART PHONES.
IT DOES SPEAK WELL FOR TWITTER.
IT MEANS THAT THEY'RE WELL
POSITIONED FOR THAT SHIFT AND IT
MEANS THAT THE HUGE ADVERTISING
BUSINESS THAT IT BUILT UP IN
JUST THE PAST TWO YEARS IS
PRETTY MUCH MAJORITY MOBILE.
>> Sreenivasan: SO LOOKING AT
THAT ADVERTISING BUSINESS, EVEN
THOUGH THERE ARE ALL THESE ADS
THEY'RE SERVING, ARE THE PRICES
OF ADS STAYING HIGH OR HAS IT
GOTTEN CHEAPER?
>> THEY'RE NOT.
THAT WAS A DISCLOSER TWITTER HAD
TO ADD AS IT SUBMIT THIS I.P.O.
FILING CONFIDENTIALLY ORIGINALLY
TO THE S.E.C. AND GOT FEEDBACK
FROM REGULATORS THERE.
AS IT WENT THROUGH THOSE DRAFTS
ONE DISCLOSURE IT ADDED WAS THAT
ITS AD RATES ARE DECLINING.
TWITTER SAYS TH'S BATECAUSE IT
HAS MORE ADS TO SHOW, JUST MORE
PEOPLE USING THE SERVICE SO BY
NATURE THEY HAVE MORE SUPPLY
IT'S JUST GOING TO BE CHEAPER.
BUT IT IS A DANGER.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS IS
SOMETHING YOU SAID EARLIER, THAT
THEY'RE NOT PROFITABLE.
SO EVEN WITH THIS ALL THIS MONEY
THEY'RE MAKING, THEY'VE GROWN
THEIR REVENUE A HUGE AMOUNT YEAR
OVER YEAR BUT THEY'RE STILL NOT
PROFITABLE, NEVER HAVE BEEN, SO
WHY WOULD SOMEONE WANT TO BUY A
STOCK THAT HAS NO PATH TOWARD
PROFITABILITY YET?
>> THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
UNDERSTANBLY DACONFUSES A LOT OF
PEOPLE.
IF YOU'RE GOING TO BE INVESTING
IN TWITTER, YOU'RE MAKING A BET
ON FUTURE PROFITABILITY,
OBVIOUSLY.
YOU'RE MAKING A BET THAT IT CAN
GROW WELL BEYOND THE NUMBER OF
USERS IT HAS CURRENTLY, THAT IT
CAN SHOW THOSE USERS MORE
ADVERTISING AND THAT IT PROBABLY
THAT IT CAN CHARGE MORE FOR THE
ADVERTISING IT SHOWS.
IF YOU DON'T FEEL CONFIDENT IN
ANY OF THOSE THINGS HAPPENING
THEN IT'S A BAD BET.
BUT, YOU KNOW, IT'S HARDLY THE
ONLY TECHNOLOGY COMPANY WHICH
EARLY ON SHOWED A LOT OF STRONG
GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY CAME
LONGAF PEOPLE ARE CONSIDERING
THIS IN THE CONTEXT OF THAT
FACEBOOK I.P.O. YOU MENTIONED.
WAS THERE A SOFTENING OF THE
I.P.O. MARKET AFTER FACEBOOK'S
NOT-SO-GREAT START?
>> I THINK FACEBOOK'S I.P.O. WAS
SEEN AS A BIT OF A DEBACLE.
IT WAS NOT PULLED OFF WELL AND
THEN FOR THE LONGEST TIME
TWITTER -- EXCUSE ME, FACEBOOK
WAS TRADING UNDER THE TWICE AT
WHICH IT HAD OPENED AT ITS
I.P.O.
NOW IT'S WELL ABOVE THAT PRICE
AND IT'S TRADING AT RECORD HIGHS
SO TWITTER MIGHT HAVE TIMED IT
REALLY WELL.
SOCIAL MEDIA STOCKS IN GENERAL,
LINKEDDED IN IS ANOTHER PUBLICLY
TRADED SOCIAL NETWORK ARE DOING
REALLY WELL RIGHT NOW AND
TWITTER IS TRYING TO JUMP ON
THIS BANDWAGON.
>> Sreenivasan: WHO GETS THE
MOST AMOUNT OF WEALTH FROM THIS?
THIS IS A BILLION DOLLAR I.P.O.
>> INDEED.
THE ONLY BILLIONAIRE THAT'S --
APPEARS WILL BE MADE FROM THIS
I.P.O. IS  +*EF WILLIAMS, ONE OF
THE FOUNDERS OF TWITTER WHO
STILL OWNS A 12% STAKE IN THE
COMPANY IT WAS DISCLOSED IN THE
FILING.
BUT THERE ARE INDEED LOTS OF
PEOPLE WHO STAND TO MAKE A
KILLING AT CAPITAL FIRMS AND
OTHER PEOPLE WHO WERE NOT
FOUNDERS BUT INCLUDE EARLY
EMPLOYEES AND PEOPLE WHO PICKED
UP STAKES ALONG THE WAY.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY,
WHAT'S NEXT?
WHEN DO THEY TAKE THIS ON THE
ROAD FOR INVESTORS AND WHEN
THEY'LL COME TO MARKET?
>> TWITTER'S INTENT IS TO GO
PUBLIC AS FAST AS IT CAN AT PART
IN ORDER TO AVOID THE FACEBOOK
DEBACLE-- AT LEAST THAT'S WHAT
PEOPLE CLOSE TO THE I.P.O. TELL
ME-- BY LAW IT HAS TO WAIT THREE
WEEKS AND THEN IT CAN GO ON A A
ROAD SHOW TO MARKET ITSELF TO
INVESTORS WHICH WILL BE PROBABLY
TRUNCATED.
THEY WANT TO GET THIS OVER AND
DONE WITH AND BE A PUBLICLY
TRADED COMPANY BEFORE
THANKSGIVING.
>> Sreenivasan: ZACH SEWARD,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: NOW, TO A DIFFERENT
KIND OF STORY ABOUT THE
GOVERNMENT.
EVERY YEAR, THE NON-PROFIT,
NON-PARTISAN, PARTNERSHIP FOR
PUBLIC SERVICE HONORS
OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENTS BY
CIVIL SERVANTS.
THIS YEAR, OF COURSE, THAT COMES
AMID A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
THAT'S AFFECTED HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF THOSE WORKERS.
JEFFREY BROWN EXPLAINS.
>> Brown: THE AWARDS ARE KNOWN
AS THE SAMMYS.
THE MEDALIST ARE TARA PALMORE
AND JULIE SEGRE WHO USED GENOME
SEQUENCES TO STOP AN INFECTION
FROM SPREADING THROUGH
HOSPITALS.
MORRIS WILLIAMS BROWN WORKED
ONLY FINANCIAL MATTERS IN THE
AFTERMATH OF THE 2008 CRISIS,
ANDREW RABBENS HANDLES
KWRAOUPBLG ENGAGEMENT FOR STATE
DEPARTMENT.
DANIEL MADRZ WR +*RBGSKOWSKI I
BELIEVE PROVED FIREFIGHTING
TECHNIQUES.
JOHN MacKINNON'S FORENSIC
WORK LED TO THE ARREST OF 55
PEOPLE ARRESTED FOR CHILD
PORNOGRAPHY.
THIS MAN OVERSAW THE DELIVER
RIFF OF POLIO VACCINE TO
CHILDREN IN INDIA.
DAVID LAVEERY WAS CRITICAL TO
THE DEVELOPMENT OF NASA'S MARS
ROVER.
ANTONIO MENDEZ HELPS FREE SIX
DIPLOMATS TRAPPED IN IRAN AND
HIS STORY INSPIRED LAST YEAR'S
OSCAR-WINNING FILM "ARGO."
JOINING ME NOW IS KEVIN GEISS,
THE DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY
FOR ENERGY AT THE DEPARTMENT OF
THE AIR FORCE.
HE WORKED ON ALTERNATIVE FUELS
AND HELPED SAVE MORE THAN ONE
BILLION DOLLARS AND WELCOME AND
CONGRATULATIONS TO YOU.
>> THANK YOU, JEFFREY.
>> Brown: SO FIRST I WANT TO
ASK HOW DOES A PERSON SAVE A
BILLION DOLLARS?
IN LAYMAN'S TERM, WHAT DID YOU
DO?
>> WELL, IT TAKES INNOVATION AND
DEDICATION ACROSS THE ENTIRE
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE.
WE HAVE MEN AND WOMEN WHO ARE
PILOTS, AVIATORS, CIVIL
ENGINEERS IN JOBS ACROSS THE AIR
FORCE WHO COME UP WITH GOOD
IDEAS THAT WE THEN DEMONSTRATE,
BUILD BUSINESS CASES AND BRING
TO THE FOREFRONT THAT WE CAN
EXECUTE ACROSS THE AIR FORCE TO
SAVE THOSE DOLLARS.
>> Brown: IN YOUR CASE WHAT
WAS THE PROBLEM YOU WERE TRYING
TO SOLVE?
>> JEFFREY, WE SPEND IN THE AIR
FORCE ABOUT $9 BILLION A YEAR ON
JET FUEL AND UTILITIES FOR OUR
INSTALLATIONS.
THAT'S TWO AND A HALF BILLION
GALLONS OF FUEL.
SO WHEN YOU LOOK AT WHAT THE BIG
BILLS ARE IN THE AIR FORCE, FUEL
AND ENERGY IS ONE OF THOSE.
SO AS MY OFFICE-- WHICH OWNS
ENERGY POLICY-- LOOKED AT THE
CHALLENGE, WE BROUGHT IN EXPERTS
AND SUBJECT MATTER EXPERTS FROM
ACROSS THE AIR FORCE TO HELP US
TO IDENTIFY AREAS FOR IMPROVED
EFFICIENCIES.
AND INITIATIVES THAT WE COULD
PUT IN PLACE TO HELP SAVE THAT
MONEY.
>> Brown: AND THE ALTERNATIVE
ENERGIES YOU WERE WORKING ON?
>> WE HAVE CERTIFIED ALL OF OUR
AIRCRAFT FLEET TO FLY ON
ALTERNATE FUELS, BOTH SYNTHETIC
FUELS AS WELL AS BIOFUELS AND
WE'VE ALSO INSTITUTED OVER 50
ALTERNATE ENERGY OR RENEWABLE
ENERGY PROJECTS ON OUR
INSTALLATIONS.
>> Brown: DOES THIS HAVE WIDER
APPLICATIONS BEYOND THE AIR
FORCE?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
AND WE ALSO LOOK TO BEST
PRACTICES IF INDUSTRY AND IN
PARTICULAR FROM OUR AVIATION
OPERATIONS.
WE HAVE MEN AND WOMEN IN OUR
RESERVES MO WHO FLY FOR SOME OF
THE LARGE COMMERCIAL AIRLINES
AND CARGO AIRLINES THAT WE TAP
INTO AND WE BRING THOSE IDEAS
INTO THE AIR FORCE TO TRY AND
FIND OPPORTUNITIES FOR MORE
POTENTIAL EFFICIENCIES.
>> Brown: WHAT IS YOUR
BACKGROUND?
HOW DOES ONE COME TO THIS KIND
OF WORK?
>> I -- WELL, I AM THE FIRST AIR
FORCE DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY
SO THERE WAS NO PATH TO GET
HERE.
>> Brown: YOU CREATED IT.
>> IT WAS CREATED AND I CAME
INTO IT BUT MY BACKGROUND WAS IN
CHEMISTRY.
I THINK AS A SCIENTIST THAT'S
TRAINED ME TO ALWAYS ASKED ASK
QUESTIONS, TO BE CONCERNED ABOUT
THE LIMITATIONS AND ISSUES AND
ASSUMPTIONS THAT WE HAVE AND
WHATEVER TECHNOLOGIES OR
PROGRAMS THAT WE HAVE.
>> Brown: THE TIMING OF THIS
WAS COINCIDENTAL BURKE HERE WE
SIT AMID A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
AND I UNDERSTAND THAT YOU ARE
ONE OF SEVERAL OF THIS YEAR'S
WINNERS WHO ARE ON FURLOUGH.
>> CORRECT.
>> Brown: THE DISCONNECT MUST
HAVE HIT YOU.
>> WELL, I WILL SAY THAT I'M
FRUSTRATED BECAUSE I JOINED THE
FEDERAL SERVICE IN 2002 BECAUSE
I WANTED TO SERVE AND MY BIGGEST
FRUSTRATION IS THAT I AM KEPT
OUT OF MY OFFICE AND KEPT FROM
SERVING IN THE WAY THAT KEEPS ME
COMING TO THE OFFICE EVERYDAY TO
DO THAT JOB.
THE MISSION THAT WE HAVE IN THE
AIR FORCE TO FLY, FIGHT AND WIN
IN AIRSPACE AND CYBERSPACE AND
EVERYTHING THAT WE CAN DO WITH
MY STAFF AND MY OFFICE AND
PARTNERS ACROSS THE AIR FORCE TO
HELP SAVE THE AIR FORCE MONEY.
>> Brown: FROM WHERE YOU SIT,
DO YOU UNDERSTAND THE --
SOMETIMES IT'S VITRIOL THAT IS
AIMED AT FEDERAL WORKERS.
DO YOU UNDERSTAND WHERE ANY OF
THAT COMES FROM?
>> I'VE HEARD COMMENTS FOLKS
MAKE BUT WHEN I LOOK AT WHAT WE
DO IN OUR OFFICE, WHAT WE DO IN
THE AIR FORCE, OUR RESULTS SPEAK
FOR THEMSELVES.
WE ARE, IN 2012, WE WERE HAULING
ALMOST 20% MORE CARGO IN OUR
AIRCRAFT AND USING 13% LESS
FUEL.
SO WE HAVE SHOWN NOT ONLY THAT
WE CAN DO THE MISSION BUT WE CAN
DO MORE MISSION AND SAVE ENERGY
DOING IT.
ON OUR INSTALLATIONS WE HAVE CUT
OUR OVERALL ENERGY CONSUMPTION
PER SQUARE FOOT BY OVER 21%
COMPARED TO 2003.
>> Brown: YOU WERE TELLING ME
BEFORE WE STARTED THAT YOU'RE
KEEPING BUSY EVEN WHILE YOU HAVE
THESE DAYS ON FURLOUGH.
>> RIGHT.
WELL, I AM A SQUADRON COMMANDER
FOR A CIVIL AIR PATROL SQUADRON
HERE LOCALLY AND WE DO EMERGENCY
SERVICES, SUPPORT HOMELAND
OPERATIONS AND HAVE A STRONG
CADET PROGRAM IN OUR UNIT IN
FORT BELVOIR, VIRGINIA.
>> Suarez: KEVIN GEISS IS AIR
FORCE ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR
ENERGY.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN LEARN MORE
ABOUT THE WINNERS ON OUR RUNDOWN
BLOG.
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF BROOKS AND DIONNE, "NEW YORK
TIMES" COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS
AND "WASHINGTON POST" COLUMNIST
E.J. DIONNE.
MARK SHIELDS IS OFF TODAY.
SO WE JUST HEARD FROM THIS
GENTLEMAN IN HERE, KEVIN GEISS,
WHO WORKS FOR THE AIR FORCE,
HE'S FURLOUGHED.
DAVID, IS THERE A MESSAGE THERE
ABOUT FEDERAL -- CIVIL SERVANTS,
PUBLIC SERVANTS AND WHAT THEY'RE
DOING AND NOT DOING RIGHT NOW?
>> I THINK THERE'S A MESSAGE
ABOUT THE QUALITY OF CIVIL
SERVANTS.
I OFTEN ASK REPUBLICAN POLITICAL
APPOINTEES WHO ARE IN THE
DEPARTMENTS, HOW GOOD ARE THE
CAREER PEOPLE YOU WORK WITH?
ALMOST UNIVERSALLY EVEN IF A LOT
OF THE REPUBLICANS ARE NOT VERY
FOND OF BIG GOVERNMENT BUT THEY
SAY THE PEOPLE IN THE OFFICES
ARE QUITE IMPRESSIVE.
AND WHEN I'VE SAT IN ON OTHER AE
BEEN ASTOUNDED BY THE HIGH
QUALITY OF THE PEOPLE.
THEY'RE NOT GETTING A LOT OF
MONEY, THEY'RE DOING IT FOR THE
SERVICE.
THEY ARE OF HIGH QUALITY, THE
PEOPLE IN THIS GOVERNMENT.
DAVID CAMERON, THE PRIME
MINISTER OF BRITAIN, HAD A GOOD
COMMENT A COUPLE YEARS CALL THEM
ALL BUREAUCRATS BUT AS HE GOT TO
KNOW THEM HE DECIDED THAT WAS
NOT THE RIGHT WAY TO TALK ABOUT
THEM IN A DEMEANING WAY AND HE
STOPPED USING THAT WORD AND I
THINK THAT'S APPROPRIATE BECAUSE
THE QUALITY IS QUITE HIGH.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU TAKE
AWAY FROM SOMEONE LIKE THAT AT
THIS POINT?
>> I THINK THE GOVERNMENT IS
FULL OF PEOPLE WHO ARE
PERFORMING PUBLIC SERVICE.
IT'S A TERM WE DON'T USE.
A PARTNERSHIP FOR PUBLIC SERVICE
GAVE THESE AWARDS AND ONE OF MY
FAVORITE ORGANIZATIONS, OUGHT TO
BE EVERYBODY'S FAVORITE
ORGANIZATION REGARDLESS OF THEIR
POLITICS BECAUSE THEY ARE
LIFTING UP THE PEOPLE WHO DO
WELL, ARE DOING GOOD THINGS LIKE
MR. GEISS.
THEY'RE TRYING TO RECRUIT BETTER
PEOPLE AND WHEN YOU LOOK AT THIS
SHUTDOWN, THERE'S SOMETHING SO
DEEPLY DISRESPECTFUL ABOUT IT.
THE WAY THAT CONGRESS CAN JUST
WALK AWAY FROM PAYING THE
SALARIES OF ALL THESE FOLKS.
AND WHAT DOES THAT DO TO
RECRUITMENT.
WHAT DOES THAT DO TO MORALE IN
THE PUBLIC SERVICE?
THERE'S SOME PEOPLE WHO WANT TO
ATTACK GOVERNMENT, THERE'S SOME
PEOPLE WHO WANT TO REFORM
GOVERNMENT AND MAKE IT WORK
BETTER.
I THINK MOST AMERICANS ARE ON
THE SIDE OF THE PEOPLE WHO WANT
TO REFORM IT AND MAKE IT WORK.
>> Woodruff: DAVID, ARE WE ANY
CLOSER TO A RESOLUTION?
HERE WE ARE FOUR DAYS INTO THE
GOVERNMENT BEING SHUT DOWN.
>> WE MUST BE CLOSER BECAUSE
THERE WILL BE A RESOLUTION,
WE'VE MOVED A FEW DAYS AHEAD.
>> Woodruff: THERE WILL BE A
RESOLUTION?
>> I ASSUME BY THE TIME WE DIE
THERE WILL BE A RESOLUTION.
IT'S NOT TOO EVIDENT.
ONE THING IS HAPPENING ON THE
REPUBLICAN SIDE.
I THINK THERE'S A WIDESPREAD
RECOGNITION FROM EVERYBODY WHO'S
NOT IN TED CRUZ'S OWN PERSONAL
HOUSEHOLD THAT THIS WAS A VERY
DUMB STRATEGY.
THAT IF YOU WALK INTO A
CONFRONTATION WITH THE
PRESIDENT, THERE SHOULD BE SOME
POSSIBILITY OF SUCCESS AND THEY
WALKED IN REALLY WITH ZERO
POSSIBILITY OF SUCCESS.
FOCUSING ON OBAMACARE WHICH WAS
NEVER GOING TO BE DEFUNDED
MERELY DISTRACTD FROM THE ACTUAL
WHICH YOU WILL LAUNCH OF
OBAMACARE, IT DISTRACTED FROM
THE ISSUES UPON WHICH
REPUBLICANS ARE STRONGEST AND IT
WAS AN INCREDIBLY DUMB
HAM-FISTED POLICY AND THAT
AWARENESS HAS SPREAD THROUGHOUT
THE SENATE WHERE THERE'S BEEN
SOME SHARP CHALLENGES TO TED
CRUZ FROM SOME OF HIS
COLLEAGUES.
IT'S SPREAD AMONG THE REPUBLICAN
ELDER CLASS, THE PEOPLE AROUND
TOWN WHO ARE -- WHO WANT THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY TO DO WELL.
AND SO THERE'S BEEN A LITTLE
MORE RETHINKING AND A LITTLE
MORE OPPOSITION, I WOULD SAY, TO
SOME OF THE TEA PARTY TED CRUZ
TYPES WHICH HOPEFULLY, IN MY
OPINION, WILL BUILD AND OFFER
SOME MORE SENSIBLE ALTERNATIVES.
>> Woodruff: HOW ARE YOU
READING THIS E.J.?
ARE YOU SENSING THERE'S MOVEMENT
ON THE PART OF REPUBLICANS?
>> I SENSE SOME MOVEMENT AMONG
REPUBLICANS WHO ARE NOT IN DEEP
RED DISTRICTS.
YOU SEE ALMOST TWO DOZEN NOW WHO
SAY THEY WOULD VOTE TO PASS THE
SENATE'S BUDGET, THE SENATE
CONTINUING RESOLUTION IF THEY
COULD.
AND I THINK DEMOCRATS ARE NOW
TRYING TO FIND WAYS OF PUTTING
THOSE GUYS AND WOMEN ON THE
SPOT.
BECAUSE IF THEY COMBINE WITH
DEMOCRATS, WE WOULD END THE
SHUTDOWN.
BUT THE THING THAT'S REALLY
STRIKES ME, I WAS IN THE WHITE
HOUSE THIS WEEK AND TALKED TO A
NUMBER OF TOP AIDES TO PRESIDENT
OBAMA AND I HAVE NEVER SEEN THE
ADMINISTRATION BE SO RESOLUTE IN
SAYING "WE CANNOT MAKE ANY
CONCESSIONS ON THE ISSUE OF THE
SHUTDOWN OR ON THE DEBT CEILING.
WE ARE HAPPY TO NEGOTIATE AFTER
THOSE ARE SETTLED."
OBAMA IS FAMOUS FOR LIKING TO
NEGOTIATE.
SOME OF US ARE SOMEWHAT CRITICAL
OF HIM FOR BEING TOO EAGER TO
NEGOTIATE BUT THIS TIME THEY'RE
SAYING "THERE IS A PRINCIPLE
HERE, IT'S A CONSTITUTIONAL CONN
MONSTROSITY TO GET SOMETHING
DONE-- IN THIS CASE REPEALING
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT-- WHEN
THE PRESIDENT WON'T SIGN IT AND
THEY DON'T HAVE A MAJORITY IN
THE SENATE.
>> Woodruff: CONSTITUTIONAL
MONSTROSITY, DAVID?
>> THIS HAS BECOME SUCH A STUPID
EVENT BECAUSE WE'RE NOT EVEN
ARGUING ABOUT THE SIZE OF THE
GOVERNMENT OR THE PHILOSOPHICAL
DIVIDE, WE'RE ARGUING ABOUT
PROCESS, WHO WILL TALK TO 40 WHO
AND WHO'S WILLING TO NEGOTIATE
MORE AND WHO'S WILLING TO
NEGOTIATE LESS.
IT STRIKES MOST PEOPLE-- AS IT
STRIKES ME-- AS A DEBATE WITH NO
SUBSTANCE TO IT.
AS A DEBATE ABOUT DYSFUNCTION IN
WHICH WASHINGTON DISPLAYS ITS
DYSFUNCTION.
NOW I CONCEDE THAT MOST OF THE
BLAME PROBABLY HAS TO GO TO THE
REPUBLICANS BUT I DO NOT THINK
BARACK OBAMA'S OFF THE HOOK HERE
ENTIRELY.
I DO THINK OVERALL IT HAS BEEN A
LONG-RUNNING PROBLEM FOR THIS
ADMINISTRATION THAT THEY DIDN'T
FIND A WAY TO ISOLATE THE TEA
PARTY AND WORK WITH THE OTHER
REPUBLICANS TO CREATE A
GOVERNING MAJORITY AND THAT
STILL HOLDS.
NOW THEY'RE GOING TO TRY TO DO
IT AND I HOPE THEY DO.
MAYBE THEY CAN CARRY IT OVER
INTO IMMIGRATI,ON OTHER THINGS.
BUT IT'S BEEN A PROBLEM FOR THE
SEPARATE THESE SMALL RUMP
GROUP FROM THE REST OF THE
REPUBLICANS WHO THEY COULD HAVE
WORKED WITH.
>> Woodruff: YOU THINK THEY
SHOULD HAVE DONE THAT?
>> I THINK IT'S JOHN BOEHNER'S
JOB TO DO THAT.
I THINK JOHN BOEHNER-- WHOM A
LOT OF PEOPLE AROUND TOWN LIKE,
I KIND OF LIKE HIM, UP TO NOW
HE'S BEEN A GUY WHO LIKES TO GET
STUFF DONE-- YET IN THIS CASE HE
HAS ALLOWED THIS SMALL MINORITY
TO DICTATE WHAT, AS YOU SAY, IS
A REALLY DUMB STRATEGY.
AND I THINK AT SOME POINT
EARLIER ON HE SHOULD HAVE SAID,
YOU KNOW, "MAYBE I'LL RISK MY
SPEAKERSHIP BUT A LOT BETTER
THAN THAN PURSUING WHAT ONE
CONSERVATIVE WRITER CALLED
SEINFELD SHUTDOWN."
IT'S REALLY ABOUT NOTHING NOW.
IT'S ABOUT WHATEVER COMES UP ON
A GIVEN DAY THAT CAN JUSTIFY IT.
>> Woodruff: BUT WASN'T IT
ABOUT HEALTH CARE?
>> WELL, THAT WAS NEVER GOING TO
HAPPEN.
SO THERE WAS SOME WILD
PREDICTIONS MADE BY SOME IN THE
TEA PARTY THAT IT WAS GOING TO
-- THE EXCHANGES WERE NOT GOING
TO BE LAUNCHED, THERE WOULD BE
-- AMERICANS WOULD BE RALLYING
IN THE STREET AGAINST OBAMACARE.
OBAMACARE IS UNPOPULAR BUT
THEY'RE NOT RALLYING IN THE
STREET AND THEY WON'T DEFUND IT.
THE REPUBLICANS DIDN'T WIN THE
LAST ELECTION, THEY HAVE TO
UNDERSTAND THAT.
SO YOU HAVE TO DEAL WITH THAT
REALITY.
BUT THE PROBLEM FOR THE PARTY IS
THAT YOU HAVE A GROUP OF PEOPLE
WHO ARE NOT NORMAL LEGISLATORS,
THEY'RE JUST INTERESTED IN
MAKING A MEDIA DISPLAY.
BUT I THINK BOEHNER COULD NOT
HAVE ACTED AND SURVIVED HIS
SPEAKERSHIP BEFORE.
BUT NOW WITH MUCH MORE
UNHAPPINESS AT THIS RUMP I THINK
HE'S GOT A LITTLE MORE ROOM TO
TAKE SOME ACTION TO REGAIN
CONTROL OF THE HOUSE.
>> Woodruff: IS THAT WHAT YOU
THINK IS GOING TO HAPPEN?
THAT HE'S GOING TO SHIFT HIS
POSITION AND BE WILLING TO BEND
AFTER SAYING HE'S NOT GOING TO
BEND?
>> I THINK HE'S IN A VERY TOUGH
SPOT NOW AND HE STILL SEEMS TO
BE DIGGING IN.
HE GAVE SOME SIGNALS THAT HE
WOULD NEVER ALLOW US TO DEFAULT,
HE EAST'D SOMEHOW PASS THE DEBT
CEILING YET TODAY HE WAS OUT
THERE TALKING ABOUT SPENDING
WHICH HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH
OBAMACARE SAYIN SAY SOMETHING ME
DONE ABOUT THIS.
I THINK HE'S GOT TO FIND A WAY
TO END THIS BECAUSE IT'S HURTING
WASHINGTON GENERALLY BUT IT'S
CLEARLY HURTING REPUBLICANS
MORE.
BUT I THINK IF HE DOESN'T END
IT, SOME OF THE REPUBLICANS WHO
COME FROM DISTRICTS LIKE HERE IN
VIRGINIA WHERE WE'RE SITTING
WHERE A LOT OF FEDERAL WORKERS
LIVE, IN STATES LIKE NEW YORK
AND PENNSYLVANIA WHERE THEY SAID
THIS ISN'T THE KIND OF
REPUBLICANISM WE BELIEVE IN.
AND I THINK THEY MAY HAVE TO
CREATE SOME OF THE PRESSURE TO
GET OFF THIS.
>> HE COULD DO IT AND THE
PRESIDENT COULD DO IT BY
SHIFTING THE FOCUS AWAY FROM THE
DUMB OBAMACARE STRATEGY TO WHAT
HAS BEEN ON OUR AGENDA FOR THE
PAST COUPLE YEARS, ENTITLEMENT
REFORM, TAX REFORM.
>> Woodruff: A BIGGER PACKAGE.
>> I DON'T HAVE HUGE HOPES THIS
IS A MOMENT WE'RE GOING TO GET A
BIG GRAND BARGAIN BUT YOU CAN AT
LEAST GET TO GROUND WHERE
THERE'S COMPROMISE POSSIBLE AND
I HOPE THAT BOEHNER MOVE THERE
IS, AS HE IS, AND I HOPE OBAMA
MOVES THERE AS WELL BECAUSE
THERE STILL IS SOME SORT OF DEAL
TO BE MADE THERE.
>> BUT YOU CAN'T NEGOTIATE A
BUDGET.
I MEAN, THE DEMOCRATS PASSED A
BUDGET IN THE SENATE LIKE THE
TEA PARTY SAID THEY WERE GOING
TO DO 18 TIMES THE REPUBLICANS
TURNED DOWN A CONFERENCE.
WE COULD HAVE BEEN NEGOTIATING
THIS FOR THE LAST 18 MONTHS.
I THINK YOU CAN'T NOW WITHOUT
CEDING AN IMPORTANT PRINCIPLE
NEGOTIATE A BUDGET BEFORE YOU
SETTLE THE SHUTDOWN AND THE DEBT
CEILING.
I THINK THERE'S AMPLE ROOM TO
HAVE NEGOTIATIONS AFTER THAT.
>> Woodruff: IS THERE A DANGER
THAT THE DEBT CEILING GETS
CAUGHT UP IN ALL OF THIS AND
THEY DON'T RAISE IT?
WHAT WOULD BE THE CONSEQUENCE?
>> OBVIOUSLY THAT WOULD BE
CATACLYSMIC FOR THE ECONOMY AND
JOHN BOEHNER SAID THAT WILL NOT
HAPPEN.
I THINK THE PRESIDENT DOESN'T
WANT IT TO HAPPEN EITHER.
SO YOU HAVE TO SAY THE ODDS THAT
WE'LL DO THE DEBT KREILING ARE
-- THAT IT WILL GO OVER --
CREATE THAT CATACLYSM ARE SMALL.
I'M THE GUY WHO SAID THE
GOVERNMENT WOULD SHOT SHUT DOWN
TO SHUSH ME ON MY PREDICTIONS.
>> Woodruff: I WAS SPARING YOU
BY NOT REMINDING YOU OF THAT.
>> SO WHEN THEY WERE SITTING
AROUND IN 1914 THE LEADERS OF
EUROPE THINKING "WE'RE NOT GOING
TO HAVE A WORLD WAR OR
ANYTHING."
AND LO AND BEHOLD THEY DO.
>> AND THAT'S A GOOD METAPHOR
BECAUSE I THINK ONE OF THE
PROBLEMS HERE IS BACK IN 2011
AFTER THE ELECTION WHEN THE TEA
PARTY LOOKED VERY STRONG
PRESIDENT OBAMA DID NEGOTIATE
WITH THEM OVER THE DEBT CEILING.
AND I THINK THEY MISCALCULATED
IN THINKING, WELL, WE CAN DO
THIS AGAIN AND HE'LL DO IT
AGAIN.
WHAT THEY DIDN'T SEE IS THAT THE
PRESIDENT LEARNED SOMETHING FROM
THAT EXPERIENCE AND SAID "I AM
NOT GOING TO DO THAT AGAIN."
>> IF HE HOLDS BACK AND SAYS
"I'M NOT NEGOTIATING UNTIL WE DO
THE DEBT CEILING" HE'S ASKING
THE REPUBLICANS TO GIVE AWAY
THEIR LEVERAGE BEFORE THEY GET
TO ANYTHING NEGOTIATIONS.
THEY WON'T DO THAT.
>> Woodruff: WHAT MAKES YOU
THINK THE SPEAKER MAY BE GETTING
CLOSER TO GIVING SOME GROUND?
WHAT IS THE -- WHAT SIGNAL ARE
YOU --
>> WELL, YOU SEE THE -- WELL,
YOU SEE THE BUILDUP OF UPSET IN
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY.
NOT ACROSS THE WHOLE REPUBLICAN
PARTY.
A LOT OF REPUBLICANS, RAND PAUL,
THINK WE'RE WINNING, WE'RE
WINNING.
IN THEIR DISTRICTS THEY ARE
IT'S GOOD MORE THEM.
WINNING.
BUT ACROSS THE REPUBLICAN
IT'S GOOD MORE THEM.
CHATTERING CLASS I THINK THERE'S
BUT ACROSS THE REPUBLICAN
A RECOGNITION THAT THEY'RE NOT
CHATTERING CLASS I THINK THERE'S
IN A GOOD SPOT.
A RECOGNITION THAT THEY'RE NOT
THEY SHOULD HAVEN'T GOTTEN IN A
IN A GOOD SPOT.
FIGHT IN THE FIRST PLACE, JOHN
THEY SHOULD HAVEN'T GOTTEN IN A
BOEHNER NEVER WANTED TO BE IN
FIGHT IN THE FIRST PLACE, JOHN
THIS SPOT.
BOEHNER NEVER WANTED TO BE IN
AND SO -- AND YOU SEE HIM
THIS SPOT.
SHIFTING AWAY FROM THE OBAMACARE
AND SO -- AND YOU SEE HIM
TOWARD THESE OTHER WIDER GRAND
SHIFTING AWAY FROM THE OBAMACARE
BARGAIN ISSUES.
TOWARD THESE OTHER WIDER GRAND
THAT'S CLEARLY A SIGN HE WANTS
BARGAIN ISSUES.
TO GET INTO SOME NEW SORT OF
THAT'S CLEARLY A SIGN HE WANTS
GAME.
TO GET INTO SOME NEW SORT OF
>> Woodruff: AND IS THAT -- SO
GAME.
E.J., DO WE THEN SEE THE MAKINGS
>> Woodruff: AND IS THAT -- SO
OF GETTING THIS RESOLVED NEXT
E.J., DO WE THEN SEE THE MAKINGS
WEEK?
OF GETTING THIS RESOLVED NEXT
>> YOU KNOW, IT'S THE BEST LINE
WEEK?
ON ALL OF THIS, HERB STEIN, THE
>> YOU KNOW, IT'S THE BEST LINE
CONSERVATIVE ECONOMIST WHO SAID
ON ALL OF THIS, HERB STEIN, THE
WHEN SOMETHING CAN'T KEEP GOING
CONSERVATIVE ECONOMIST WHO SAID
ON LIKE IT IS, IT WON'T.
WHEN SOMETHING CAN'T KEEP GOING
SO SOMEDAY WE'RE GOING TO GET
ON LIKE IT IS, IT WON'T.
THERE.
SO SOMEDAY WE'RE GOING TO GET
BUT I AM VERY WORRIED THAT JOHN
THERE.
BOEHNER NOW HAS A WHOLE SERIES
BUT I AM VERY WORRIED THAT JOHN
OF POSITIONS HE'S TAKEN AND IT'S
BOEHNER NOW HAS A WHOLE SERIES
GOING TO BE VERY HARD FOR HIM TO
OF POSITIONS HE'S TAKEN AND IT'S
BACK OFF.
GOING TO BE VERY HARD FOR HIM TO
AND ON THE WHITE HOUSE SIDE,
BACK OFF.
IT'S GOING TO BE VERY HARD FOR
AND ON THE WHITE HOUSE SIDE,
THEM TO PROVIDE FIG LEAVES GIVEN
IT'S GOING TO BE VERY HARD FOR
WHAT THEIR POSITION IS AND GIVEN
THEM TO PROVIDE FIG LEAVES GIVEN
WHAT IS CLEARLY A LOT OF
WHAT THEIR POSITION IS AND GIVEN
HOSTILITY.
WHAT IS CLEARLY A LOT OF
THE PRESIDENT'S REALLY CALLING
HOSTILITY.
OUT JOHN BOEHNER IN HIS PUBLIC
THE PRESIDENT'S REALLY CALLING
SPEECHES IN A WAY HE DIDN'T
OUT JOHN BOEHNER IN HIS PUBLIC
BEFORE.
SPEECHES IN A WAY HE DIDN'T
SO I SEE THIS AS A VERY
BEFORE.
DIFFERENT KIND OF CONFRONTATION
SO I SEE THIS AS A VERY
THAN THE CONFRONTATIONS WE'VE
DIFFERENT KIND OF CONFRONTATION
SEEN BEFORE.
THAN THE CONFRONTATIONS WE'VE
>> Woodruff: ARE THERE
SEEN BEFORE.
LONG-LASTING -- IS THERE
>> Woodruff: ARE THERE
LONG-LASTING DAMAGE TO THE
LONG-LASTING -- IS THERE
COUNTRY IN SOME WAY?
LONG-LASTING DAMAGE TO THE
TO EVERYBODY INVOLVED IN ALL OF
COUNTRY IN SOME WAY?
THIS BECAUSE OF THE GOVERNMENT
TO EVERYBODY INVOLVED IN ALL OF
SHUTDOWN, DAVID?
THIS BECAUSE OF THE GOVERNMENT
OR ARE WE JUST NOW IN A PLACE
SHUTDOWN, DAVID?
WHERE WE CAN JUST SHUT DOWN THE
OR ARE WE JUST NOW IN A PLACE
GOVERNMENT EVERY FEW YEARS AND
WHERE WE CAN JUST SHUT DOWN THE
SORT OF MOVE ON WITH LIFE AS
GOVERNMENT EVERY FEW YEARS AND
USUAL?
SORT OF MOVE ON WITH LIFE AS
I MEAN, WHAT --
USUAL?
>> I WOULD SAY THAT THE BIG
I MEAN, WHAT --
EFFECT IS ON TRUST IN
>> I WOULD SAY THAT THE BIG
GOVERNMENT.
EFFECT IS ON TRUST IN
YOU KNOW, I THINK IT'S THE MOST
GOVERNMENT.
IMPORTANT STATISTIC SO I QUOTE
YOU KNOW, I THINK IT'S THE MOST
IT ALL THE TIME.
IMPORTANT STATISTIC SO I QUOTE
WHEN THEY ASK PEOPLE-- AS THEY
IT ALL THE TIME.
HAVE FOR DECADES-- "DO YOU TRUST
WHEN THEY ASK PEOPLE-- AS THEY
GOVERNMENT TO DO THE RIGHT THING
HAVE FOR DECADES-- "DO YOU TRUST
MOST OF THE TIME?"
GOVERNMENT TO DO THE RIGHT THING
IF YOU GO THROUGH THE FIRST 20
MOST OF THE TIME?"
YEARS OF THE CENTURY 70% OF
IF YOU GO THROUGH THE FIRST 20
AMERICANS TRUSTED THEM.
YEARS OF THE CENTURY 70% OF
NOW THE NUMBER IS AROUND 22% AND
AMERICANS TRUSTED THEM.
SO THERE'S NO TRUST IN
NOW THE NUMBER IS AROUND 22% AND
GOVERNMENT AND THIS WILL JUST
SO THERE'S NO TRUST IN
AMPLIFY AND FORTIFY THAT BELIEF
GOVERNMENT AND THIS WILL JUST
THAT PEOPLE THINK WASHINGTON IS
AMPLIFY AND FORTIFY THAT BELIEF
JUST SCREWED UP.
THAT PEOPLE THINK WASHINGTON IS
>> Woodruff: DOES THAT MATTER?
JUST SCREWED UP.
>> IT DOES MATTER.
>> Woodruff: DOES THAT MATTER?
I THINK YOU SAW COST OF THE
>> IT DOES MATTER.
SHUTDOWN IN THE CANCELLATION OF
I THINK YOU SAW COST OF THE
THE PRESIDENT'S TRIP TO ASIA.
SHUTDOWN IN THE CANCELLATION OF
WHETHER YOU'RE A REPUBLICAN OR
THE PRESIDENT'S TRIP TO ASIA.
DEMOCRAT OR AN INDEPENDENT YOU
WHETHER YOU'RE A REPUBLICAN OR
WANT THE UNITED STATES TO BE
DEMOCRAT OR AN INDEPENDENT YOU
PRESENT IN THE WORLD.
WANT THE UNITED STATES TO BE
IT IS IMPORTANT THAT WE IMPROVE
PRESENT IN THE WORLD.
-- PIVOT TOWARD ASIA, AS THE
IT IS IMPORTANT THAT WE IMPROVE
PRESIDENT LIKES TO SAY.
-- PIVOT TOWARD ASIA, AS THE
NOW WHAT DO WE LOOK LIKE IN ASIA
PRESIDENT LIKES TO SAY.
COMPARED TO SAY, THE CHINESE AND
NOW WHAT DO WE LOOK LIKE IN ASIA
OTHERS?
COMPARED TO SAY, THE CHINESE AND
YES, WE ARE A FREE COUNTRY AND
OTHERS?
THEY ARE NOT BUT THIS KIND OF
YES, WE ARE A FREE COUNTRY AND
CHAOS IS NOT GOOD FOR US.
THEY ARE NOT BUT THIS KIND OF
ONE GOOD THING COULD COME OUT OF
CHAOS IS NOT GOOD FOR US.
THIS.
ONE GOOD THING COULD COME OUT OF
I THINK THE TEA PARTY IS PAST
THIS.
ITS HIGH TIDE.
I THINK THE TEA PARTY IS PAST
I THINK THERE IS A
ITS HIGH TIDE.
SLOWLY-BUILDING REVOLT WITHIN
I THINK THERE IS A
REPUBLICAN RANKS AGAINST THIS
SLOWLY-BUILDING REVOLT WITHIN
KIND OF POLITICS, WHICH IS NOT
REPUBLICAN RANKS AGAINST THIS
ABOUT GOVERNING, IT'S ABOUT
KIND OF POLITICS, WHICH IS NOT
STOPPING STUFF.
ABOUT GOVERNING, IT'S ABOUT
>> Woodruff: LESS THAN 30
STOPPING STUFF.
SECONDS.
>> Woodruff: LESS THAN 30
DO YOU AGREE WITH THAT?
SECONDS.
>> I DO.
DO YOU AGREE WITH THAT?
I THINK IT'S A RUMP THAT HAD ITS
>> I DO.
MOMENT.
I THINK IT'S A RUMP THAT HAD ITS
ON THE OTHER HAND IT HAS
MOMENT.
INSTITUTIONS, A DONOR BASE AND
ON THE OTHER HAND IT HAS
AGGRESSION.
INSTITUTIONS, A DONOR BASE AND
TED CRUZ, THOSE REPUBLICANS, THE
AGGRESSION.
HERITAGE ACTION GROUPS, THEY GO
TED CRUZ, THOSE REPUBLICANS, THE
AFTER OTHER REPUBLICANS.
HERITAGE ACTION GROUPS, THEY GO
THERE'S AN AGGRESSIVENESS THERE
AFTER OTHER REPUBLICANS.
THAT IS NOT MUCHED BY ANY OTHER
THERE'S AN AGGRESSIVENESS THERE
PART OF THE PARTY AND SOMEBODY
THAT IS NOT MUCHED BY ANY OTHER
HAS TO STAND UP AND BALANCE IT.
PART OF THE PARTY AND SOMEBODY
>> Woodruff: WE ARE DELIGHTED
HAS TO STAND UP AND BALANCE IT.
TO HAVE THE TWO OF YOU TO STAND
>> Woodruff: WE ARE DELIGHTED
UP FOR WHAT YOU CAME TO TALK
TO HAVE THE TWO OF YOU TO STAND
ABOUT.
UP FOR WHAT YOU CAME TO TALK
DAVID BROOKS, E.J. DIONNE, THANK
ABOUT.
YOU SO MUCH.
DAVID BROOKS, E.J. DIONNE, THANK
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
YOU SO MUCH.
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
THE PARTIAL SHUTDOWN OF THE
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT HEADED INTO
THE PARTIAL SHUTDOWN OF THE
THE WEEKEND, WITH NO HINT OF
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT HEADED INTO
RESOLUTION.
THE WEEKEND, WITH NO HINT OF
TROPICAL STORM "KAREN" CHURNED
RESOLUTION.
CLOSER TO THE GULF COAST,
TROPICAL STORM "KAREN" CHURNED
AIMING FOR A LIKELY LANDFALL
CLOSER TO THE GULF COAST,
TOMORROW BETWEEN LOUISIANA
AIMING FOR A LIKELY LANDFALL
AND FLORIDA.
TOMORROW BETWEEN LOUISIANA
AND FEDERAL INVESTIGATORS SAID
AND FLORIDA.
IT APPEARS THE WOMAN KILLED
AND FEDERAL INVESTIGATORS SAID
IN A CAR CHASE FROM THE WHITE
IT APPEARS THE WOMAN KILLED
HOUSE TO THE CAPITOL WAS
IN A CAR CHASE FROM THE WHITE
DELUSIONAL.
HOUSE TO THE CAPITOL WAS
SHE APPARENTLY BELIEVED
DELUSIONAL.
THE PRESIDENT WAS TRYING TO
SHE APPARENTLY BELIEVED
COMMUNICATE WITH HER.
THE PRESIDENT WAS TRYING TO
ONLINE, EVEN THOUGH MILLENNIALS
COMMUNICATE WITH HER.
ARE THE  MOST EDUCATED
ONLINE, EVEN THOUGH MILLENNIALS
GENERATION, IT'S TAKING THEM
ARE THE  MOST EDUCATED
LONGER TO LAUNCH THEIR CAREERS
GENERATION, IT'S TAKING THEM
THAN IT DID THEIR PARENTS.
LONGER TO LAUNCH THEIR CAREERS
BUT DON'T BLAME OLDER WORKERS
THAN IT DID THEIR PARENTS.
REFUSING TO RETIRE.
BUT DON'T BLAME OLDER WORKERS
WE HAVE AN EXPLANATION ON
REFUSING TO RETIRE.
"MAKING SENSE."
WE HAVE AN EXPLANATION ON
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
"MAKING SENSE."
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
BEFORE WE GO, A REMINDER ABOUT
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
BEFORE WE GO, A REMINDER ABOUT
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
GWEN IS OFF, PREPARING FOR
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
"WASHINGTON WEEK", WHICH AIRS
GWEN IS OFF, PREPARING FOR
LATER THIS EVENING.
"WASHINGTON WEEK", WHICH AIRS
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
LATER THIS EVENING.
>> IS WASHINGTON DYSFUNCTIONAL
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
OR IS THIS THE NEW NORMAL IN THE
>> IS WASHINGTON DYSFUNCTIONAL
NATION'S CAPITOL?
OR IS THIS THE NEW NORMAL IN THE
WE EXAMINE THE SHUTDOWN SHOWDOWN
NATION'S CAPITOL?
TONIGHT ON "WASHINGTON WEEK."
WE EXAMINE THE SHUTDOWN SHOWDOWN
JUDY?
TONIGHT ON "WASHINGTON WEEK."
>> Woodruff: TOMORROW'S EDITION
JUDY?
OF "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND"
>> Woodruff: TOMORROW'S EDITION
INCLUDES A REPORT ON A LITTLE-
OF "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND"
KNOWN TASK FORCE THAT NOW HAS
INCLUDES A REPORT ON A LITTLE-
THE AUTHORITY, UNDER THE
KNOWN TASK FORCE THAT NOW HAS
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, TO DECIDE
THE AUTHORITY, UNDER THE
WHICH PREVENTIVE MEDICAL
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, TO DECIDE
SERVICES MUST BE COVERED IN FULL
WHICH PREVENTIVE MEDICAL
BY INSURERS.
SERVICES MUST BE COVERED IN FULL
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ON "PBS
BY INSURERS.
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND" TOMORROW
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ON "PBS
NIGHT.
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND" TOMORROW
THEN, RIGHT HERE, ON MONDAY,
NIGHT.
WE'LL PREVIEW THE SUPREME COURT
THEN, RIGHT HERE, ON MONDAY,
TERM.
WE'LL PREVIEW THE SUPREME COURT
THE JUSTICES ARE SCHEDULED
TERM.
TO MEET DESPITE THE GOVERNMENT
THE JUSTICES ARE SCHEDULED
SHUTDOWN.
TO MEET DESPITE THE GOVERNMENT
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
SHUTDOWN.
A GOOD-BYE TO A THANK YOU TO
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
SOMEONE WHO HAS BEEN BEHIND THE
A GOOD-BYE TO A THANK YOU TO
CAMERA OF THE NEWSHOUR FAMILY
SOMEONE WHO HAS BEEN BEHIND THE
FOR THE PAST 18 YEARS.
CAMERA OF THE NEWSHOUR FAMILY
KATHLEEN McCLEARY, OUR DEPUTY
FOR THE PAST 18 YEARS.
EXECUTIVE PRODUCER, IS HEADED TO
KATHLEEN McCLEARY, OUR DEPUTY
NEW MEXICO TO START HER NEXT
EXECUTIVE PRODUCER, IS HEADED TO
EXCITING CHAPTER OF HER LIFE.
NEW MEXICO TO START HER NEXT
SHE GOES WITH OUR LOVE AND OUR
EXCITING CHAPTER OF HER LIFE.
GRATITUDE.
SHE GOES WITH OUR LOVE AND OUR
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GRATITUDE.
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.